# 2016-04-07

## Stress Testing

### Testing Techniques
1. A few small manual tests.
2. A test for each possible type of answer (smallest answer, biggest answer, answer doesn't exist, etc.)
3. Test for time/memory limit: generate a test with the largest possible size of input ("max test"), run your program, measure and memory consumption.
4. Tests for corner cases:
  * Smallest possible "n": the length of the input sequence or string, the number of queries etc.
  * Equal numbers, equal letters in the string, more generally, equal objects in the input. Any two objects that are not restricted to be different in the problem statement can be equal.
  * Largest numbers in the input allowed by the problem statement - for example, to test for integer overflow.
  * Degenerate cases like empty set, three points on one line, a tree which consists of just one chain of nodes.

### Stress Test
Use stress test if the above testing techniques do not yield a solution.

#### Four Parts
1. The solution you want to test.
2. A different, possibly trivial and very slow, but easy to implement and obviously correct solution to the problem.
3. A test generator.
4. An infinite loop in which a new test is generated, it is fed into both solutions, then the results are compared, and if they differ, the test and both answers are output, and the program stops, otherwise the loop repeats.

### Further Advice
Try to not only generate just some random test cases, but also try to generate some more "focused" random test cases, such as those with only small numbers or a small range of big numbers, only strings which consists of only letter "a" or only of two different letters (as opposed to strings composed of all possible lowercase latin letters), and so on.


Another important point is to try generating the smallest possible test case for which one of the solutions fails: it will simplify debugging a lot.

### Key Take-Aways
1. It is very important to write programs that work correctly on all the allowed inputs.
2. Testing is essential to writing correct programs.
3. First test on a few small manual tests, then test for each type of answer, then test on large test cases for time limit and memory limit, then test on corner cases.
4. After that, apply stress testing to ensure your program works - it will almost always lead to a correct solution. You can do it before your first attempt to submit your solution - and will often get it right from the first attempt.
5. Stress testing consists of implementing the intended solution, another simple possible slow solution, a test generator and an infinite loop which generates tests and compares answers of the two solutions.
6. Always try to find the smallest test cases on which your solution fails.
7. Try different regions of the test space when generating cases for stress testing.
